.\" vim: set ft=nroff .\"
.\" # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # #
.\" #
.\" #              C E D A R
.\" #          S O L U T I O N S       "Software done right."
.\" #           S O F T W A R E
.\" #
.\" # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # #
.\" #
.\" # Author   : Kenneth J. Pronovici <pronovic@ieee.org>
.\" # Language : nroff
.\" # Project  : Cedar Backup, release 3
.\" # Purpose  : Manpage for cback3-amazons3-sync script
.\" #
.\" # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # #
.\"
.TH cback3\-amazons3-sync "1" "Nov 2020" "Cedar Backup 3" "Kenneth J. Pronovici"
.SH NAME
cback3\-amazons3-sync \- Synchronize a local directory with an Amazon S3 bucket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cback3\-amazons3\-sync
[\fIswitches\fR]
sourceDir s3BucketUrl
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is the Cedar Backup 3 Amazon S3 sync tool.  It synchronizes a local
directory to an Amazon S3 cloud storage bucket.  After the sync is complete, a
validation step is taken.  An error is reported if the contents of the bucket
do not match the source directory, or if the indicated size for any file
differs.
.PP
Generally, one can run the cback3\-amazons3\-sync command with no special
switches.  This will start it using the default Cedar Backup log file, etc.
You only need to use the switches if you need to change the default behavior.
.SH MIGRATING FROM VERSION 2 TO VERSION 3
.PP
The main difference between Cedar Backup version 2 and Cedar Backup version 3
is the targeted Python interpreter.  For most users, migration should be
straightforward.  See the discussion found at cback3(1) or reference the Cedar
Backup user guide.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fBsourceDir\fR
The source directory on a local disk.
.TP
\fBs3BucketUrl\fR
The URL specifying the location of the Amazon S3 cloud storage bucket
to synchronize with, like \fIs3://example.com\-backup/subdir\fR.
.SH SWITCHES
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage/help listing.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print verbose output to the screen as well writing to the logfile. When this
option is enabled, most information that would normally be written to the
logfile will also be written to the screen.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR
Specify the path to an alternate logfile.  The default logfile file is
\fI/var/log/cback3.log\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-owner\fR
Specify the ownership of the logfile, in the form user:group.  The default
ownership is \fIroot:adm\fR, to match the Debian standard for most logfiles.
This value will only be used when creating a new logfile.  If the logfile
already exists when the cback3 script is executed, it will retain its existing
ownership and mode.  Only user and group names may be used, not numeric uid and
gid values.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mode\fR
Specify the permissions for the logfile, using the numeric mode as in chmod(1).
The default mode is \fI640\fR (\-rw\-r\-\-\-\-\-).  This value will only be
used when creating a new logfile.  If the logfile already exists when the cback3
script is executed, it will retain its existing ownership and mode.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR
Record some sub-command output to the logfile. When this option is enabled, all
output from system commands will be logged. This might be useful for debugging
or just for reference. 
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Write debugging information to the logfile. This option produces a high volume
of output, and would generally only be needed when debugging a problem. This
option implies the \-\-output option, as well.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stack\fR
Dump a Python stack trace instead of swallowing exceptions.  This forces Cedar
Backup to dump the entire Python stack trace associated with an error, rather
than just propagating last message it received back up to the user interface.
Under some circumstances, this is useful information to include along with a
bug report.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-diagnostics\fR
Display runtime diagnostic information and then exit.  This diagnostic
information is often useful when filing a bug report.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verifyOnly\fR
Only verify the S3 bucket contents against the directory on disk. Do not make
any changes to the S3 bucket or transfer any files. This is intended as a quick
check to see whether the sync is up-to-date.  Although no files are
transferred, the tool will still execute the source filename encoding check.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uploadOnly\fR
Implement a partial or "upload only" sync, instead of a full synchronization.
Normally, synchronization would remove files that exist in S3 but do not exist
in the directory on disk.  With this flag, new files are uploaded, but no files
are removed in S3.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-ignoreWarnings\fR
The AWS CLI S3 sync process is very picky about filename encoding.  Files that
the Linux filesystem handles with no problems can cause problems in S3 if the
filename cannot be encoded properly in your configured locale. As of this
writing, filenames like this will cause the sync process to abort without
transferring all files as expected.  To avoid confusion, the tool tries to
guess which files in the source directory will cause problems, and refuses to
execute the AWS CLI S3 sync if any problematic files exist. If you'd rather
proceed anyway, use this flag.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
This command returns 0 (zero) upon normal completion, and several other error
codes related to particular errors. 
.TP
\fB1\fR
The Python interpreter version is < 3.7.
.TP
\fB2\fR
Error processing command\-line arguments.
.TP
\fB3\fR
Error configuring logging.
.TP
\fB5\fR
Backup was interrupted with a CTRL\-C or similar.
.TP
\fB6\fR
Other error during processing.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This tool is a wrapper over the Amazon AWS CLI interface found in the aws(1)
command.  Specifically, cback3\-amazons3\-sync invokes "aws s3 sync" followed by
"aws s3api list\-objects".
.PP
Cedar Backup itself is designed to run as root.  However, cback3\-amazons3\-sync
can be run safely as any user that is configured to use the Amazon AWS CLI
interface.  The aws(1) command will be executed by the same user which is
executing cback3\-amazons3\-sync.
.PP
You must configure the AWS CLI interface to have a valid connection to Amazon
S3 infrastructure before using cback3\-amazons3\-sync. For more information
about how to accomplish this, see the Cedar Backup user guide.
.SH SEE ALSO
cback3(1)
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/var/log/cback3.log\fR - Default log file
.SH URLS
.TP
The project homepage is: \fIhttps://github.com/pronovic/cedar\-backup3\fR
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you find a bug, please report it.
.PP
If possible, give me the output from \-\-diagnostics, all of the error
messages that the script printed into its log, and also any stack\-traces
(exceptions) that Python printed.  It would be even better if you could tell me
how to reproduce the problem, for instance by sending me your configuration file.
.PP
Report bugs to <support@cedar\-solutions.com> or via GitHub issues
tracker.
.SH AUTHOR
Written and maintained by Kenneth J. Pronovici <pronovic@ieee.org> with contributions from others.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004\-2020 Kenneth J. Pronovici.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
